# HAB_TAXI_SERVICE

A Python program for my final sprint 

The context of this problem is that a notional client, Harry Mackie, and his brothers
Archie and Brian, have decided to open a small taxi stand (HAB Taxi Services – what a
great name) in their town and asked for your help with the technology. All the brothers
are mechanics so all maintenance will be performed in-house. They have a large garage
between their homes (they are neighbors too) with a small build-out on the side that
will be used as an office and command center. They have 4 cars that they are using in
the business and rent out to drivers, while other employees use their own vehicles and
pay stand fees.

A text file called Defaults.dat includes some values that will be used by the system.
Values include the Next transaction number (143), the Next driver number (1922), the
Monthly stand fee ($175.00) for drivers with their own car, the Daily rental fee ($60.00)
and the Weekly rental fee ($300.00) for drivers who rent one of the company cars, and
the HST rate (15%).

To keep track of drivers, set up an Employees table to store their driver number, name,
address and phone number, drivers license number and expiry date, insurance policy
company and policy number, a field to represent if they have their own car, and a field
for their balance due – based on stand fees and rentals. Note that Harry, Archie, and
Brian will also be set up as employees in this table.

A table is required to record any revenues from the company in a Revenues table. This
table will include a Transaction ID, the date of the transaction, a brief description of the
transaction, the driver number that generated the revenue, the amount of the
transaction, the HST and the Total. NOTE: On the first day of each month stand fees are
automatically charged to the drivers when the program is turned on, the balance due is
updated in the employee table, and the revenue will be recorded in the revenue table.
Another table is required to record company Expenses for supplies and repairs to the
company cars in an Expenses table. This table will include an Invoice number, an invoice
date, the driver number that generated the expense, the item number, description,
Cost, the Quantity, and the item total (Cost * Quantity) – NOTE: there could be multiple
items entered on the invoice. Finally, the Subtotal, the HST and the Total will be added.
As drivers rent one of the company cars, we need to record the information to a Rentals
table. The table will include a Rental ID, the driver number, the start date of the rental,
the car number (1, 2, 3, or 4), whether the rental is for a day (from noon to noon the
next day) or a week, the number of days (if they pick a week, it will appear as 7), the
rental cost, the HST and the total. NOTE: this will update the balance due in the
employees table above and add a record to the Revenue table as well.
As a driver makes a payment on their balance due, record the information to a Payment
table. This will include a Payment ID, the driver number, the date of the payment, the
amount of the payment, the reason for the payment, and the payment method (Cash,
Debit, or Visa).

Design each of the following Reports / Receipts that are generated by the system.
Place each of the designs on separate pages (Use Ctrl + Enter to move to the next
page) after the ERD.

  • As a driver rents a company car or makes a payment on their balance, the system
must print a receipt. Make sure it clearly indicates the reason for generating the
receipt.

  • A Profit Listing is a report that is generated based on a Start and End Date –
could be a single day, a month, or the entire year. Include all revenues and a
total at the end of that part of the listing, then all expenses and a total for that
part of the listing, and finally a calculated Profit (Loss) which is the total revenues
less the total expenses. Include the date range as part of the headings.

  • A Driver Financial Listing can be generated for any driver based on a Start and
End Date. Prompt the user to enter an employee number and include all entries
from the Revenue table for the driver between the dates specified. Include
relevant totals at the end of the report. BONUS: include the employee name at
the top of the report as well as the date range.

Some Python Code

The program will be set up to work from the following menu. There are enough options
that someone can set up the menu and everyone can take a part or two from the menu
options.
HAB Taxi Services
Company Services System
1. Enter a New Employee (driver).
2. Enter Company Revenues.
3. Enter Company Expenses.
4. Track Car Rentals.
5. Record Employee Payment.
6. Print Company Profit Listing.
7. Print Driver Financial Listing.
8. Quit Program.
Enter choice (1-8):

Create the defaults file as described in the case study. At the beginning of this program,
read the values from the defaults file and write the values back at the end of the
program.

Remember how I said programmers hate the word “Automatically” – Prepare the
following code as part of the project. On the first day of each month stand fees are
automatically charged to the drivers with their own car when the program is turned on,
and the revenue will be recorded in the revenue table. A sample record in the revenue
table would appear as follows.

143, 2022-04-01, Monthly Stand Fees, 1918, 175.00, 26.25, 201.25

It was mentioned that this would also update the balance due in the employees table –
Place a comment indicating that the Balance Due would be updated now – this update
does not need to be coded – it is quite tricky with text files – BONUS point if you can
figure it out (Remember this is a text file). Prepare the code to apply stand fees on the
first day of the month and write the record to the revenue table.

Based on your ERD, design, and code a text-based interface. Add some calculated fields
and display the results once the inputs are complete and write the values to the
appropriate files. Since you only create one of these programs, you must create the
data files for the other options not created – if you code Option 1 you need to create the
data files for options 2 and 3. Add 5 - 6 records in the Employee table, and 10 - 20
records in the revenue and expenses tables.

Option 4 will track cars that are rented by drivers. Option 5 will allow payments from
drivers and employees on their accounts. Use any extra features you may require such
as data file, functions, etc. Set up interactive screens for the user input and prepare a
professional output for each.

Write the code for Options 6 and 7 based on the designs you created in the first project.
